[Concept Entry] Python Plotly (#4609)
Codecademy/docs: content/plotly/plotly.md

---
Title: 'Plotly'
Description: 'Plotly is a Python library for creating interactive visualizations and charts.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Data Visualization'
Tags:
  - 'Data'
  - 'Graphs'
  - 'Libraries'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

**`Plotly`** is a Python library for interactive charts and graphics, offering a variety of visualization options like `line graphs`, `bar charts`, `heatmaps`, and `scatter plots`.

## Installation

The guidelines for installing the Plotly library can be found [here](https://plotly.com/python/getting-started/). The official release of plotly can be installed with [pip](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/pip):

> The descriptions of the Plotly modules are shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plotly comprises several modules, each serving distinct purposes within the realm of data visualization. Below is an overview of these modules:
```

### plotly.express

> The `plotly.express` module, usually imported as `px`, provides an easy way of creating different types of figures. Offers over 30 functions for creating various types of plots and they are intended to be straightforward and easy to learn. In essence, plotly express simplifies the creation of interactive and visually appealing plots in Python such as `bar charts`, `histograms`, `line graphs`, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `plotly.express` module, typically imported as `px`, provides an easy way to create various types of figures. It offers over 30 functions for generating different plot types, such as `bar charts`, `histograms`, `line graphs`, and more. These functions are designed to be straightforward and easy to learn, simplifying the creation of interactive and visually appealing plots in Python.
```

### plotly.graph_objects

> The `plotly.graph_objects` module, often imported as `go`, contains objects like `Figure`, `layout`, and data that define the plots, e.g. `line charts` and `scatter plots`. `plotly.express` uses this module internally, however, `plotly.graph_objects` offers a finer degree of control over the visualization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `plotly.graph_objects` module, commonly imported as `go`, includes objects like `Figure`, `layout`, and `data` that define plots such as `line charts` and `scatter plots`. While `plotly.express` internally uses this module, `plotly.graph_objects` provides a higher degree of control over visualization elements.
```

### plotly.figure_factory

> The `plotly.figure_factory` module, commonly imported as `ff`, contains specialized functions to create special types of graphs that are difficult to create using the standard `plotly.graph_objects` or `plotly.express`, such as `dendrograms`, `quiver plots`, `hexagonal binning`, `tile maps`, `streamline plots`, and others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `plotly.figure_factory` module, often imported as `ff`, features specialized functions for creating complex graphs that may be challenging to build using standard `plotly.graph_objects` or `plotly.express` methods. Examples of such graphs include `dendrograms`, `quiver plots`, `hexagonal binning`, `tile maps`, `streamline plots`, and others.
```
